gRPC and Proxy (#1472)
spectrocloud/librarium: content/docs/02.5-architecture/04.1-grps-proxy.md

---
title: "gRPC and Proxies"
metaTitle: "gRPC and Proxies"
metaDescription: "Learn about gRPC and how a proxy is used to communicate between the management platform and the workload cluster."
icon: ""
hideToC: false
fullWidth: false
---
 
import Tabs from 'shared/components/ui/Tabs';
import WarningBox from 'shared/components/WarningBox';
import InfoBox from 'shared/components/InfoBox';

# gRPC and Proxies

> Palette uses [gRPC](https://grpc.io) to communicate between the management platform and the workload cluster. gRPC is a high-performance, open-source universal RPC framework. It is used to build distributed applications and services. gRPC is based on HTTP/2 and uses protocol buffers ([protobuf](https://protobuf.dev/)) as the underlying data serialization framework. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Palette uses [gRPC](https://grpc.io) to communicate between the management platform and the workload cluster. gRPC is a high-performance, open-source universal Remote Procedure Call (RPC) framework. It is used to build distributed applications and services. gRPC is based on HTTP/2 and uses protocol buffers ([protobuf](https://protobuf.dev/)) as the underlying data serialization framework. 
```

<br />

<InfoBox>

Refer to the [Network Ports](/architecture/networking-ports) documentation for a detailed network architecture diagram with gRPC and to learn more about the ports used for communication.

</InfoBox>

<br />

When gRPC is used with network proxies, the proxy servers may or may not support gRPC or require additional configuration to allow gRPC traffic to pass through. The following table summarizes the different scenarios and whether or not the proxy server supports gRPC.

| **Scenario** | **Description** | **Proxy Supported** |
|:-------------|:----------------|:--------------------|

> | gRCP with HTTP/HTTPS - No SSL bump| gRPC traffic is sent over HTTP/HTTPS ,and the proxy does not perform Secure Socket Layer (SSL) bump. This is universally supported. | ✅ |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| gRCP with HTTP/HTTPS - No SSL bump| gRPC traffic is sent over HTTP/HTTPS, and the proxy does not perform a Secure Socket Layer (SSL) bump. This is universally supported. | ✅ |
```

> | gRPC with HTTP/HTTPS - SSL bump | gRPC traffic is sent over HTTP/HTTPS ,and the proxy performs SSL bump. Support vary by vendor. | ⚠️ |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| gRPC with HTTP/HTTPS - SSL bump | gRPC traffic is sent over HTTP/HTTPS, and the proxy performs an SSL bump. Support varies by vendor. | ⚠️ |
```

> | gRPC with [Squid](https://wiki.squid-cache.org) Open Source Proxy | gRPC traffic is sent over HTTP/HTTPS ,and the proxy performs SSL bump. Supported in some scenarios but require additional configuration. | ❌ or ⚠️ |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| gRPC with [Squid](https://wiki.squid-cache.org) Open Source Proxy | gRPC traffic is sent over HTTP/HTTPS, and the proxy performs an SSL bump. Supported in some scenarios but requires additional configuration. | ❌ or ⚠️ |
```

The following sections provide more information about gRPC and proxies.

<br />

 ## Proxy Without SSL Bump

> Because gRPC is based on HTTP/2, any proxy server that supports the [HTTP CONNECT](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Methods/CONNECT) method can be used to forward gRPC traffic. No configuration is required for this scenario. The exception is when the proxy server performs an SSL bump, discussed in the next section.

Reviewer: Let's add a link to the section instead of "discussed in the next section". We don't want to assume sequential reading. Also, another section or subsection could potentially be added between these two sections if another writer isn't watching for something like this.

<br />

<InfoBox>

SSL bump is a technique used to decrypt and inspect HTTPS traffic. When SSL bump is enabled, the proxy server terminates the Transport Layer Security (TLS) connection and establishes a new TLS connection to the destination server. In this scenario, the proxy server must support gRPC and may require additional configuration.   

</InfoBox>

## Proxy With SSL Bump

Several vendors provide proxy servers that support gRPC. Some of the vendors may require additional configurations or the use of a specific version of the proxy server. We encourage you to review your proxy server documentation for more information.

> When you review the vendor documentation, search for information about gRPC and HTTP/2. We have provided links to some of the vendors' documentation that addresses the HTTP2 and gRPC support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you review the vendor documentation, search for information about gRPC and HTTP/2. We provide the following links to some vendors' documentation that addresses HTTP/2 and gRPC support.
```
